.. _user_interface:

**************
User Interface
**************

Users access the WRF cloud system through a web browser and domain name unique to each organization. In this documentation, wrfcloud.com is used as an example. This website serves as the primary user interface (UI) through which users are able to view, launch, and monitor forecasts as well as manage user accounts, depending on each user's role and corresponding permissions (see roles and permissions). Users can navigate the site using the Menu options. The Menu options are described below. 

Homepage
========

The main home pages contains brief information about the system and is an access point to Login to the system.

Login / Logout
--------------

To Login to the system, click on the green Login button on the Homepage. This will take you to a prompt to enter your Email Address and Password, and then you can click the blue Login button. If your credentials are propoerly validated, you'll be taken to the main system page. Once logged into the system, you can logout by clicking the "Logout" button.

Forgot / Reset password
----------------------- 

If you forgot your password, you an click on the "I forgot my password" button on the Login page. You'll be prompted to enter your email address. Check your email from instructions to reset your password.


Run WRF
=======

The Run WRF tab is where you can launch a new WRF run. There are several parameters described below that need to be selected in order to setup and launch a new forecast. 

* **Model Confiuration:** Name of the model configuration. It is a meaningful name given to a configuration that is added during the initial setup or added later. Associated with a model configuration are WRF namelist.wps, naemlist.input, geo_em.d01.nc files, that describe the model domain, grid extents, resolution, model dynamics and physics, etc. If there is more than one model configuration available, it can be selected in the drop down menu.
* **Job Name:** This is an optional name to give your run to help describe its purpose or meaning.
* **Cycle Date:** The inital date of the forecast. Select from the calendar or enter manually in MM/DD/YYYY format.
* **Cyle Hour:** The inital cycle hour. Options are 00, 06, 12, 18 UTC.
* **Forecast Length:** The forecast legnth in hours.
* **Output Frequency:** The frequency of forecast output.

After the parameters are set, check or uncheck the "Notify when finished" box. Then click the Launch button. You will be automatically taken to the WRF Jobs status page after the system initializes the forecast.


WRF Jobs 
========

* **Job ID:** Unique job ID for the forecast. This is automatically generated by the system and used for advanced debugging.
* **Name:** If a Job Name was provided in the previous step when Launching a new forecast, it will appear in this column. (Note: this is optional)
* **Configuration:** Name of modelconfiguration.  
* **Cycle Time:** The initialization date and time of the forecast.
* **Forecast Length:** The total forecast length in hours.
* **Status:** The current state of the forecast. See table below for definitions.

Clicking on either the Job ID or the Status of a particular run will take you to the forecast viewer to view plots of the forecast.

Status Definitions
------------------

When a run is finished, this column will say Open in Viewer and can be clicked to go to the forecast viewer to look at forecast plots.

Manage Users (Admins only)
==========================

For users with Admin privileges, the users of the system can me managed in this tab. Click on any user name to change their role and permissions or remove from system access. To add new users, click on the "Add user" button and enter their email, Name, and select a role for permissions. (See roles and permissions for more information)

Preferences 
===========

Users may manage their own preferences in this tab. Currently the only option is to change your password.

Forecast Viewer 
===============

The forecast plots can be accessed by clicking on the Job ID or Status of a run in the WRF Jobs tab. See Graphics page for more information.
